---
title: Job Hunting
tags: ["work"]
created: 2024-10-14
updated: 2024-10-14
---

My problem is I don't have a long term goal. If I had a long term goal, I could take whatever step got me closer to that. But I only have vague notions. I think maybe I want to teach creative writing. I think maybe I want to mangae or own an arthouse theater.

And where does web design come into all this? I definteily don't want to be fixing bugs on someone's website the rest of my life. Teaching and running a theater sound better than that. I just started learning web because I wanted a lucrative job. And the skills I'm learning by learning web are invalualbe. But I think maybe I should focus on more concrete positions with businesses. At the Sentinel you were a real asset. I know you hated that job, but that was largely because you resented it for taking so much time away from writing. But if you can find a healthy balance there, I wonder if you could have enjoyed it. At least the operations and managemant side.

So maybe I'll take a **business-first** approach. Look for businesses I might like to work for, instead of work I might like to do. The work is less important than who you're working for. And the cool thing about small businesses is you can make yourself a real asset, because you bring a lot of specialized knowledge (eg, web design) to the table.

## Jobs to Try

- Journalist (focus on your [[my-interests|interests]])
- Editor of a publication (again, focus on your interests)

## Job Boards

Look for small businesses and startups.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[my-interests|interests]: my-interests "My Interests"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"