---
title: Pairings - Notes
tags: ["projects","software","javascript","pairings","programming"]
---

I had a friend who taught religion at a Catholic school and needed a way to pair her students with a random saint for a project. She hadn't yet found a tool for the job, so I decided to build one for her.

Pairings is an app that generates random pairings from any two lists. It's pretty straightforward.

This is my first JavaScript project.

## Features

### PWA

The app is a partial PWA. You can get it on your and desktop (if you're using a Chromium browser), and it features a service worker that lets you use the app offline. It's not available on the app store.

## Weaknesses

### Performance

I took a blunt force approach to rendering lists. For example, if you add items to a saved list and hit "Save Changes," the app re-renders the entire List of Lists section. I assume that's the least efficient way to do this, but it was also the easiest (or at least the most obvious).

I wanted to take a surgical approach, but I couldn't seem to get it done. That was due in equal parts to lack of knowledge and laziness. But the app is also small enough that it doesn't seem like a huge deal. But maybe that's not the case on slow connections.

## Also see

- [[pairings-checklist|Pairings Checklist]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[pairings-checklist|Pairings Checklist]: pairings-checklist "Pairings Checklist"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"