---
title: Upwork Profile
tags: ["work"]
created: 2024-10-15
updated: 2024-10-15
---

I'm a frontend web developer with about a year's experience building small-business and personal sites. The sites I build are fast, flexible, and customized to your needs. I can also maintain and update existing websites.

I got into web development after I decided to start a blog and couldn't find a website builder I liked. I know from experience that these tools can be a real headache; from building the thing, to pointing up DNS records, to setting up analytics. I worry about all that so you don't have to. I get the headache, you get the website.

If you aren't sure if I'm right for your project, there's no harm in reaching out. I look forward to working with you!

## Cover Letters

### WordPress ECommerce

Hi, I'd be happy to help with your project. I've worked with WordPress a number of times, including a WordPress/WooCommerce site for a coffee shop and a WordPress site for a small business dealing in arid-land tree-growing strategies (very niche).

I'm new to finding web development work as a freelancer, but I'm confident your project falls well within the scope of my abilities. The sites I've worked on weren't my own, so I'm familiar with the process of adding a developer account from the WordPress backend. I'm happy to walk through all of that over video chat, if that's necessary.

Let me know if you have questions!

Best,

Sam

### Shopify Store Setter-Upper

Hi, I'd be happy to help with your project. For a while I managed the Shopify store for an art gallery/retail shop in West Texas. I'm familiar with the Shopify backend, pointing domains to websites, and configuring payment gateways. I'm also familiar with the shipping side of things; configuring weights and calculating fees, etc.

I can work within the $200 budget. From your description, the project should be done inside a week, working part-time. If you need it done sooner, that isn't a problem. Just let me know!

I look forward to hearing from you!

Best,

Sam

### WordPress Site Speed

Hi! I took a look at your sight (great photos!), and it looks there's a lot of JavaScript clogging up the load process. That's where you're taking the biggest hit in your performance scores. Most likely this JavaScript is being generated by one or more of your WordPress plugins. A folder called mc.yandex.ru seems to be generating a bunch of JavaScript files. From Googling around, that seems to be some sort of analytics plugin. (I figured all this by looking at your site in Chrome DevTools. I didn't hack your site, I promise!)

The second-biggest hit is coming from your styles (CSS), some of which is probably also generated by plugins. Computer programs can only do one thing at a time, and JavaScript and CSS are render-blocking resources. This means that your browser (a type of computer program designed to turn code into websites) can't finish loading the page until it's read through all the JavaScript and CSS. If you have a lot of JS and CSS, this can is slow your site down quite a bit.

I've worked with WordPress before, and I know a fair bit about site speed, but I'm not comfortable calling myself an expert. But I'd be happy to do a free consultation to give you a better idea of where the problems are coming from, and whether I'm qualified to fix them. Until then, it's tough to say how long the project would take.

I put a Project Assessment milestone of $300, just cause I had to put something, but we can talk about it. If we move forward, that would be a detailed plan of attack, so to speak, and would probably take a week or so, working part-time. From there, I'd estimate how long it would take to finish the project, and come up with a completion fee.

Let me know how that sounds. Best of luck, in any case!

Cheers,

Sam