---
title: Where to Live
tags: 
created: 2024-09-17
updated: 2024-10-20
---
## 2024-09-17

Like any decision, [[how-to-decide-what-to-work-on|choose the path that gives you the most interesting options for the future]].

As I write this, it's September 2024. I'm doing a Workaway in Boulder. I'm ready to start looking for a frontend job.

My choices are:

1. Do another Workaway.
2. Stay in Boulder.

I can't say where another Workaway will lead. But unless there's a city you *really* want to explore, and I can't say there is, it might make more sense to stay where you are.

If I stay, I can pay the bills with my savings, and look for a job full time. I can meet people, and those people might know people who know people who need a frontend guy. If I do another Workaway, I'll have to start from scratch.

Workaway feels like the narrow path. The number of people I meet will be small, and so will the number of opportunities. Staying in Boulder feels like the diverse path. It's the path that lets you cast a wider net.

Of course, "Where should I live?" is really a subquestion of the big question: **"What do I want to do with my life?"**

I want to learn. I want to do great work. I want to leave things better than I found them.

## 2024-10-20

I live in Boulder now, and I've decided to study psychology. I'm taking a Intro to Psycho course on Coursera, and if all goes well, I'll go ahead an apply to schools. So I don't know that there's much point in thinking about this anymore until I've been rejected from all of them.

## Criteria

I think what I'll do is start out as picky as possible, then pare this list down as my expectations are challenged.

**Must-haves:**

- [ ] Has arthouse theater
- [ ] Country music scene
- [ ] Clean
- [ ] Good infrastructure
- [ ] No hurricanes
- [ ] At least 100,000 people
- [ ] Mild winter
- [ ] Jiujitsu
- [ ] Two-step classes
- [ ] [[people-i-most-admire|Smart people]]
- [ ] EA community(?)
- [ ] Synagogue
- [ ] 300 or more days of sunshine

**Nice-to-haves:**

- [ ] Dry summer
- [ ] Less than a day's drive from Des Moines or Kahoka
- [ ] Alamo drafthouse
- [ ] Low congestion
- [ ] Safe
- [ ] University
  - [ ] Low student/resident ratio
- [ ] Affordable
- [ ] Job market
- [ ] Good parks and/or hiking
- [ ] Moutains
- [ ] Bikeable
- [ ] Less than a million people

## Explanations

A couple quick reminders for myself, for those must-haves which are less self-evident.

**University.** College towns are more vibrant, and you're more likely (I assume) to meet smart people. Also, could audit courses.

**Less than a million people.** Only one point because presumably any city that size or bigger has surrounding neighborhoods and townships that might suit you.

**Job market.** Nice-to-have because your skills are suited to working with any small business or invidiual, and there will be plenty of those wherever you end up.

## Candidates

- Chicago
- Iowa City
- Santa Ana
- San Antonio
- Austin
- Providence
- Kansas City
- New York


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[how-to-decide-what-to-work-on|choose the path that gives you the most interesting options for the future]: how-to-decide-what-to-work-on "How to Decide What to Work On"
[people-i-most-admire|Smart people]: private/people-i-most-admire "People I Most Admire"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"