---
title: 2024-10-16
private: true
---

Tonight I went to the Boulder Philharmonic Americana deal. I briefly considered not going, since I'd forgotten about it and I was deep into *My Promised Land* by...someone whose name I forget. Anyway I could kick myself. I should know by now: *it's always worth going.* For one thing, what's the worst that could happen? You enjoy some music, spend some time with yourself, and talk to no one. But the odds are in your favor. Almost every time you go out, you meet someone. This time it was a gal named Kristin who sat next to me. She's a costume designer and we chatted about movies during the intermission and exchanged numbers after the concert.

She's older than me. I don't expect this to be anything but a friendship. But I have no friends here, and now I might. And that wouldn't have happened if I hadn't gone. *It's always worth going.*

After the show, Kristin started talking to a couple from Ft. Collins. I asked them if they knew Leslie and Coleman, and they did! And what I learned from that experience is that I like socializing. Which I don't know if I've ever put in that plain of terms before. But I do. I really, really do like talking to people. And I wonder if that's why I've always been so desperate to get better at talking to people, because I thought it looked like fun. And it is. And I am better at talking to people, so my work has paid off. But I could be better, and I will get better. But we're off to a good start. And we're learning about ourselves.